.TH ignotum_search_loop 3 2019 "Library" "libignotum man page"
.SH NAME
ignotum_search_loop \- locate a substring in a circular buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ignotum.h>
.PP
.BI "int ignotum_search_loop(ignotum_search_t *" cs ", off_t * " out ", off_t " vaddr ", const void *" mem ", size_t " len );
.PP
.BI "void ignotum_search_init(ignotum_search_t *" cs ", const void *" search ", size_t " len );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR ignotum_search_init ()
init the ignotum_search_t struct and set the substring that will be located.
.PP
.BR ignotum_search_loop ()
finds the start of the first occurrence of the substring in
.I mem
of length \fIlen\fP, then fill the
.I out
variable with the \fIposition+vaddr\fP.
.PP
In a consecutive call to ignotum_search_loop, if
.I vaddr
aren't equal to \fIprevious vaddr+previous len\fP, any progress will be erased,
so you need always update the
.I vaddr
if you want search a substring in a circular buffer.
.PP
The
.I ignotum_search_t
is defined in
.I <ignotum.h>
as follows:
.PP
.EX
typedef struct {
    off_t current;
    char *search;
    size_t len;
    size_t i;
} ignotum_search_t;
.EE
.PP
The members of
.I ignotum_search_t
are:
.TP
.I current
The current virtual address.
.TP
.I search
The substring to search.
.TP
.I len
The size of substring.
.TP
.I i
The current substring index.
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUE
.TP
.B IGNOTUM_NONE
No substring was found.
.TP
.B IGNOTUM_PARTIAL
Part of the substring was found, but the end of *mem* was reached.
.TP
.B IGNOTUM_FOUND
The substring was found.
.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
#include <ignotum.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int main(void){
    char *word="abcabcabc1abcabc";
    ignotum_search_t search;
    off_t ret, vaddr = 0;

    /* set the substring to locate */
    ignotum_search_init(&search, "abc1a", 5);

    while(*word){
        /* check one byte per time,
         * just to exemplify a circular buffer search */
        if(ignotum_search_loop(&search, &ret, vaddr, word, 1) == IGNOTUM_FOUND){
            printf("match at %lu\\n", ret);
            break;
        }

        vaddr++;
        word++;
    }

    return 0;
}
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ignotum_getmaplist (3),
.BR ignotum_mem_read (3),
.BR ignotum_ptrace_read (3)
